# Exercise: Cloud Foundry

So far, you have been exposed to two ways of deploying an application: using a PaaS solution such as Cloud Foundry and using Kubernetes resources. However, both mechanism allows for a variable level of configuration flexibility and abstractions of infrastructure components.

Imagine the following scenario: you are part of the team that needs to assess the benefits and drawbacks of using Cloud Foundry versus Kubernetes.

Considering that the application code is available, reflect on what operations and steps are necessary to adopt each solution (Cloud Foundry and Kubernetes) for a successful application deployment. What are the main drawbacks of each solution?

**Reflect on Cloud Foundry versus Kubernetes adoption - part 1**
What are the steps to adopt Kubernetes for a successful application deployment?

**Ans:**

* create an OCI (Open Container Initiative) compliant image, usually created by using Docker
* deploy a Kubernetes cluster with a valid ingress controller for the routing of requests
* deploy an observability stack, including logs and metrics
* create the YAML manifests for the application deployment
* create a CI/CD pipeline to push the Kubernetes resources to the cluster.

**Reflect on Cloud Foundry versus Kubernetes adoption - part 2**
What are the steps to adopt Cloud Foundry for a successful application deployment?

**Ans:**

* write a manifest file to provide main application deployment parameters
* deploy Cloud Foundry or use Cloud Foundry PaaS solutions from 3rd part vendors
* deploy the application to Cloud Foundry (via CLI or UI)
* _**Note:**_ Cloud Foundry will create the OCI compliant image by default, and it will provide the routing capacities as well.

**Reflect on Cloud Foundry versus Kubernetes adoption - part 3**
What are the main drawbacks of each solution?

**Ans:**
Cloud Foundry provides a better developer experience for application deployment, as it offers a greater level of component abstraction (no need to manage the underlying infrastructure). However, a PaaS solution locks-in the customer to a specific vendor. On the other side, Kubernetes offers full control over the container orchestration, providing more flexible management of the application.
