# Kubernetes Resources Part 3

## Application Configuration And Context

It is a common practice to separate the configuration layer from the business logic. This increased the portability of an application.
Kubernetes provides two objects to pass non-confidential and confidential data to the applications. These are Configmaps and Secrets.

### ConfigMaps

ConfigMaps are used:

* To store Non-confidential configuration as key-value pairs
* It can be consumed by pods as a:
  * Environmental variable
    * As a configuration file through a volume mount,
    * As a command-line arguments

To create a Configmap use the `kubectl create configmap` command, with the following syntax:

``` bash

# create a Configmap
# NAME - required; set the name of thekv configmap resource
# FLAGS - optional; define  extra configuration parameters for the configmap
kubectl create configmap NAME [FLAGS]

# Some of the widely used FLAGS are:
--from-file - set path to file with key-value pairs 
--from-literal - set key-value pair from command-line 
```

For example, to create a Configmap to store the background color for a front-end application, the following command can be used:

``` bash

# create a Configmap to store the color value
kubectl create configmap test-cm --from-literal=color=yellow
```

### Secrets

Secret are used to store and pass sensitive data to the application, such as password and tokens pods can used secrets as a:

* Environmental variables
* Files from the volume mounts from the pod.

It is not worry-free that Kubernetes will encode the secrets values using **base-64**.

To create a Secret use the `kubectl create secret generic` command, with the following syntax:

``` bash

# create a Secret
# NAME - required; set the name of the secret resource
# FLAGS - optional; define  extra configuration parameters for the secret
kubectl create secret generic NAME [FLAGS]

# Some of the widely used FLAGS are:
--from-file - set path to file with the sensitive key-value pairs 
--from-literal - set key-value pair from command-line 
```

For example, to create a Secret to store the secret background color for a front-end application, the following command can be used:

``` bash

# create a Secret to store the secret color value
kubectl create secret generic test-secret --from-literal=color=blue
```

### Namespaces

* A Kubernetes cluster is used to host hundreds of applications, and it is required to have separate execution environments across teams and business verticals. This functionality is provisioned by the **Namespace** resources.
* It also provide a provision to configure the CPU and memory bounds for a namespace, making sure that application has enough resources to execute successfully.
* This also eliminates the "noisy neighbor" use case, where a team can consume all the available resources in the cluster if no Namespace boundaries are set.

To create a Namespace we can use the `kubectl create namespace` command, with the following syntax:

``` bash

# create a `test-udacity` Namespace
kubectl create ns test-udacity

# get all the pods in the `test-udacity` Namespace
kubectl get po -n test-udacity
```

**New terms:**

* Configmap - a resource to store non-confidential data in key-value pairs.
* Secret - a resource to store confidential data in key-value pairs. These are base64 encoded.
* Namespace - a logical separation between multiple applications and associated resources.

**Further reading:**
Explore Kubernetes resources to pass configuration to pods:

* [Kubernetes Configmap](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/configmap/)
* [Kubernetes Secrets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/)
* [Kubernetes Namespaces](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces/)
