# Lesson Review

In this lesson, we have covered how to package an application using Docker and store it in DockerHub. Then, we practiced how to bootstrap a cluster using k3s and deploy an application using Kubernetes resources. For more advanced configurations, we have evaluated Kubernetes YAML manifests that are the basis of declarative management techniques.

Overall, in this lesson, we covered:

* Docker for Application Packaging
* Container Orchestration with Kubernetes
* Kubernetes Resources
* Declarative Kubernetes Manifests

**Glossary:**

* **Dockerfile** - set of instructions used to create a Docker image
* **Docker image** - a read-only template used to spin up a runnable instance of an application
* **Docker registry** - a central mechanism to store and distribute Docker images
* **CRD** - Custom Resource Definition provides the ability to extend Kubernetes API and create new resources
* **Node** - a physical or virtual server
* **Cluster** - a collection of distributed nodes that are used to manage and host workloads
* **Master node** - a node from the Kubernetes control plane, that has installed components to make global, cluster-level decisions
* **Worker node** - a node from the Kubernetes data plane, that has installed components to host workloads
* **Bootstrap** - the process of provisioning a Kubernetes cluster, by ensuring that each node has the necessary components to be fully operational
* **Kubeconfig** - a metadata file that grants a user access to a Kubernetes cluster
* **Pod** - smallest manageable unit within a cluster that provides the execution environment for an application
* **ReplicaSet** - a mechanism to ensure a number of pod replicas are up and running at all times
* **Deployment** - describe the desired state of the application to be deployed
* **Service** - an abstraction layer over a collection of pods running an application
* **Ingress** - a mechanism to manage the access from external users and workloads to the services within the cluster
* **Configmap** - a resource to store non-confidential data in key-value pairs.
* **Secret** - a resource to store confidential data in key-value pairs. These are base64 encoded.
* **Namespace** - a logical separation between multiple applications and associated resources.
* **Imperative configuration** - resource management technique, that operates and interacts directly with the live objects within the cluster.
* **Declarative configuration** - resource management technique, that operates and manages resources using YAML manifests stored locally.

**Further Reading:**

[Kubernetes kubectl cheetsheet](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/cheatsheet/)
